Ml commons batch inference (#7899)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ml-commons-plugin/api/model-apis/batch-predict.md

---
layout: default
title:  Batch predict
parent: Model APIs
grand_parent: ML Commons APIs
nav_order: 65
---

# Batch predict

This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress of the feature or if you want to leave feedback, see the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/issues/2488).
{: .warning}

> ML Commons can perform inference on large datasets in an offline asynchronous mode using a model deployed on external model servers. To use the Batch Predict API, you must provide the `model_id` for an externally hosted model. Currently, only Amazon SageMaker, Cohere, and OpenAI are the verified external servers that support this API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ML Commons can perform inference on large datasets in an offline asynchronous mode using a model deployed on external model servers. To use the Batch Predict API, you must provide the `model_id` for an externally hosted model. Amazon SageMaker, Cohere, and OpenAI are currently the only verified external servers that support this API.
```

For information about user access for this API, see [Model access control considerations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/api/model-apis/index/#model-access-control-considerations).

For information about externally hosted models, see [Connecting to externally hosted models]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/index/). 

> 

Reviewer: Does the information below need to be in the form of a bulleted list, or could it just be a sentence?

Reviewer 2: Not necessarily but if we add more connectors, I think it's better if it's a list.

> For steps to set up batch inference and for connector blueprints, see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instructions on how set up batch inference and connector blueprints, see the following:
```

> - [Amazon SageMaker batch predict connector blueprint](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/blob/main/docs/remote_inference_blueprints/batch_inference_sagemaker_connector_blueprint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Amazon SageMaker batch predict connector blueprint](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/blob/main/docs/remote_inference_blueprints/batch_inference_sagemaker_connector_blueprint.md)
```

> - [OpenAI batch predict connector blueprint](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/blob/main/docs/remote_inference_blueprints/batch_inference_openAI_connector_blueprint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [OpenAI batch predict connector blueprint](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/blob/main/docs/remote_inference_blueprints/batch_inference_openAI_connector_blueprint.md)
```

      },
      "request_body": "{ \"input_file_id\": \"${parameters.input_file_id}\", \"endpoint\": \"${parameters.endpoint}\", \"completion_window\": \"24h\" }"
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The response contains a connector ID that you'll use in the next steps:

```json
{
  "connector_id": "XU5UiokBpXT9icfOM0vt"
}
```

Next, register an externally hosted model and provide the connector ID of the created connector:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register?deploy=true
{
    "name": "OpenAI model for realtime embedding and offline batch inference",
    "function_name": "remote",
    "description": "OpenAI text embedding model",
    "connector_id": "XU5UiokBpXT9icfOM0vt"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The response contains the task ID for the register operation:

```json
{
  "task_id": "rMormY8B8aiZvtEZIO_j",
  "status": "CREATED",
  "model_id": "lyjxwZABNrAVdFa9zrcZ"
}
```

To check the status of the operation, provide the task ID to the [Tasks API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/api/tasks-apis/get-task/). Once the registration is complete, the task `state` changes to `COMPLETED`.

#### Example request

> Once you completed the prerequisite steps, you can call the Batch Predict API. The parameters in the batch predict request override those defined in the connector:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have completed the prerequisite steps, you can call the Batch Predict API. The parameters in the batch predict request override those defined in the connector:
```
